# Readable Object Description
Readable Object Description (ROD) is a human-readable format for describing
general data.

## Goals
ROD is designed principally to provide a representation suitable for testing
file formats. Consider it a specified format for "snapshots" or "golden files".

- **Human-readable.** The format is expected to be read by humans. Elements
  should be unambiguous, and should have exactly one representation.
- **Diffable.** It should be possible to format a ROD file so that produced
  diffs are human-readable, with as little noise as possible.
- **Comparable.** It should be easy to compare two files of the format
  semantically.
- **Machine-friendly.** The expected use-case of ROD is to convert data between
  ROD and another format, for the purpose of testing that format. Despite being
  human-readable, implementing a decoder and encoder in the target language
  should be straightforward. The reference implementation should be easily
  translatable to other languages.

### Non-goals

- Human-writable. Files in the format are mainly expected to be generated by a
  machine. Humans aren't expected to be writing ROD files by hand.
- Data exchange. The format is not JSON 2.0, and should not be used for
  transmitting data.

## Implementations
The [go](go/) subdirectory provides a reference implementation. Additionally,
the [luau](luau/) subdirectory provides an implementation in [Luau][luau].

## Overview
ROD is similar to JSON, consisting of a number of primitive and composite types.

Type    | Example                      | Description
--------|------------------------------|------------
null    | `null`                       | The absence of a value.
boolean | `true`                       | One of two possible states.
integer | `+42`                        | A signed integer.
float   | `-3.14`                      | A floating-point number.
string  | `"hello"`                    | A sequence of characters.
blob    | `| 68 65 6C 6C 6F |`         | A sequence of bytes.
array   | `[1, 2, 3]`                  | A sequence of values.
map     | `("A": 1, 2: 3, true: null)` | Maps a primitive value to another value.
struct  | `{A: 1, B: 2, C: 3}`         | Maps an identifier to a value.

[luau]: https://luau-lang.org/
